shot2.jpg:  the initial screen after the main title animation (which
            I didn't capture, but which are REAL nice -- also between
            every game-year is some real nice animation).
shot3.jpg:  one of the game setup pages.  I chose "single player" and
            now I get to pick which power I am and which are to be CD
            (if any).  I set myself up as England and let AI run the
            other six powers.
shot4.jpg:  around the table. We can see that Germany and Russia are
            talking in room 1, and Italy is in room 2 alone.  From this
            screen you can go into an empty room or a room into which
            you are invited by players already there.  Once in a room
            (see shot5, shot8 below), you can invite another player in
            by clicking on his flag on the right side of the screen.
shot5.jpg:  inside a meeting room.  We invited Germany into this room
            and he came in.  He is shown upper left.
shot7.jpg:  a look at the "attitude" settings.  By adjusting these,
            the sentences you construct in negotiation  with the
            AI powers are made more or less threatening.
shot8.jpg:  in a meeting room with the Italian (shown at left).
            the scrolling area at bottom shows negotiations so far;
            we invited Italy into this room, then asked him to
            attack France, then he said yes.  We asked him by
            clicking on his face, then on the cannon along the
            top (for attack) then on the French flag at right,
            which put the sentence in the little text area below
            the map, then we hit the "Send" button.
shot9.jpg:  here's the whole crew reassembled; now it's time to
            put in orders
shot10.jpg: when entering orders for your power, they show in the
            scrolling window and you see the lines.  You do this by
            point and click on the units and spaces, with pop-up
            menu to choose from move, support, hold, convoy.
shot11.jpg: after processing of orders, showing orders scrolled in
            box, and lines representing the orders performed
shot12.jpg: at the end of each year, center and unit totals are shown