FRANCE to ENGLAND:  Obviously, your spies were wrong and I did exactly as promised.  I would ask you to have them shot but your lack of correspondence or apology puts lie to commetns; it appeasr you lie as much in the press as you do in your correspondence.  En garde, Monsieur ... I'm yours!

FRANCE to GERMANY:  So you know, I will attempt with my friends (whoever they are and wherever they may appear from) to make you a more attempting target to London than I am.  Given his knack for backstabbing, I'm sure it won't take long for him to come around to my way of thinking ... I'm guessing -- hoping? -- there'll be enough blood in the water this season to convince him to strike you next season with his shiney new units.

PARIS to ROME:  To the uttermost, mon ami!  I am yours in spirit and steel!

PARIS to BREST:  Those dreadnaughts in the Channel are bluffing.  Trust us -- we're from the central government and we're here to help.  Now get those militia down to the beaches!  Quickly!  Quickly!  And those bank security guards!  And don't forget the school hall pass monitors!

F MID to F CHA:  You ARE bluffing, aren't you?

LE REPUBLIQUE to SUBLIME PORTE:  Nothing against the Tsar, but nicely done.  Haven't seen that attack come off so well in years ... or at least not since I did it to Burgess!

DON to BOOB:  Did too!  Did too!  Did too!

DON to MS. CHARLOTTE:  When are you going to wise up and trade you-know-who in for a better model?

FRANCE to TSAR:  Good luck, my friend.  For what it's worth, I appear to be about to keep England and Germany occupied for five or six years.  You can thank me later.  (I'll be looking for you at the bar ... make mine a pale lager ... )

FIREBALL XL5 to STAR DRECK PRESS:  Oh, c'mon, O'Donnell, not this merde again.  Keep it up and you'll outdo Boob for mirthless press, and that *would* be an accomplishment.  If you are going to take up space in this press column, make it amusing, interesting, informative, obscure, infamous, or -- failing all else -- scandalously libelous.  Anything else is mindless Burgesspew.

FIREBALL XL5 to ABYSSINIAN PRESS MERCHANT:  Uh, no offense intended.

FIREBALL XL5 to NOSTROMO, BATTLESTAR GALLACTICA, RED FIVE, THUNDERBIRD 4 AND SERENITY:  If the Star Dreck press doesn't improve immediately (or sooner) I say we phaser his ass right into the next universe.

FRANCE to BURGESS the YOUNGER: ... and better looking and smarter.  Stay the course.  We love you over here in Burgundy.  Let's ally and sweep the board!

PARIS to BASQUE SEPARATISTS: Stay put for a few years, will you?  We have a lovely bit of property we're willing to turn over to you in a couple years -- good for starting your own little country.  (Be quiet and don't tell anyone, but it's that bit east of itain-bray known as ermany-gay.  Shhh!  Mum's the word!)







MALICE IN CENTERLAND
Part Two:  A Simple Desultory Poem

Malice eventually decided that being kept by a demon was not as bad as it sounded.  First, nothing in his life was different due to his new knowledge of his captivity.  There were no chains, cages, bars, fetters, locked doors – nothing.  He still fed Don daily, and they now talked where they had not done so before, but that was the only change.  And as the days went by Malice learned many things.

One fall day they followed the dirt road into the local woods to read.  The demon brought a favored strategy article while Malice had the latest issue of The Abyssinian Prince.  (It had arrived several months late as usual, but Malice didn’t mind.)  They walked for some time before entering a small clearing where the dappled sunlight and a tiny rippling stream made things pleasant in the waning warmth of the afternoon.  Don stopped, noticing where the road split on the other side of the clearing.  The demon without thinking began to mutter, as if to himself.
“Two roads diverged in a yellow wood and, sorry I could not travel both and be one traveler, long I stood and looked down the one as far as I could to where it bent in the undergrowth ... .“  His voice trailed off.  Malice, restless and distracted at the first whiff of anything literary or uplifting, started thumbing the pages of TAP.  “I don’t like where this is going,” said the demon.  “It’s the wrong poem, Malice, but it surely bears witness.  It has meaning … yes, it does.  It’s about choosing a road or a path or, more correctly, choosing one path over another and considering consequences later.  I think this means it’s time, Malice.”
	“Time?  Time for what?  We just got here,” said Malice, not looking up from the szine.  But Don did not answer and, instead, stood in uffish thought for a few moments before he started intoning another poem:

‘The time has come, the Demon sighed,
to speak of many things:
Of Dots – and Blocks – and Powers Great –
Of Allies – Foes – and Kings –
And whether you should trust at all
In tales a demon sings.’

‘In ancient years across the sea
A foolish empire sought
To wield great power, quite arcane,
Against the foe they fought –
They sent the Maltese Dipcon out
Not knowing what they’d wrought!’

‘The galley sailed upon the sea
And in it in a trunk –
A guardian demon with the bane –
Unless the legend’s bunk –
But tempest tossed the galley was
And all aboard were sunk.’

‘Or so it’s told’ – the Demon said –
‘And yet I surely know
That there, in fact, was one life spared
From a watery grave below.
For he arrived upon the shore
With demon – me! – in tow.’

‘And Cabal Harem was his name –
Magus of Malta old.
But other names he had as well –
Though none of them are told –
Except in nasty secret rites,
Where souls are bought and sold.’

‘“Remove the amulet you wear”
The Magus said to me
“Hand over what I’m asking for –
And then I’ll go – you’ll see.
I want the tablet and the blocks –
That bane from you I’ll free.”’

‘I guard this ancient artifact
And so I answered “No!”
As quick as lightening did he strike –
And landed the first blow –
He stomped real hard with both his feet
And really crushed my toe!’

Our battle then was quickly joined –
With Fists – and Feet – we hit
But Cabal Harem had to win –
So ass with teeth he bit –
And while I howled in agony
He snatched the amulet!’

‘And then these words he spoke aloud –
Quote – “Idiom clop non! –
Domino cop nil!” he said and
The amulet was gone* –
And in it’s place – I kid thee not –
The Diplonomicon!’

‘He gazed in awe at the stone blocks
Then grabbed them for to hoard –
And while he was distracted thus
I likewise grabbed the board!
Then beating hard my mighty wings –
Above Cabal I soared.

‘Enraged! – Insane!  He screamed aloft –
“I’ll see you back in Hell!”
And summoning his fearful gifts
He cast an evil spell
Encasing me in walls of glass –
A crystal prison cell!’

“And held there fast – in glass entrapped –
I plunged into the sea
We grew quite small – bewitched and all –
The amulet and me –
The board remained within my grasp
A partial victory.’

‘For reasons that the Author knows –
Yet will not share his heart –
Cabal Harem grabbed the stones
And with archaic art
He disappeared from this true Earth –
The Blocks and Board – apart!’

‘Thus was the Diplonomicon
Ripped in twain – Asunder! –
Re-gathered only – says the Myth –
By fantastic blunder
Of Hero-Fool in Centerland –
Who is that, I wonder?’

‘So, Malice, there you have the Tale –
Save one small fact you’ll rue –
Genetically you fall in line
To make the Myth come true –
From Cabal Harem’s loins did all
Your DNA ensue!

‘When first I spoke – when first I spoke –
A lie – a demon’s story?
Or is it not a lie at all,
But just the truth grown hoary?
And will you be the Hero-Fool,
Stumbling into glory?

‘Our metre’s run – this poem’s done –
The Readers I do bore
(For if you listen carefully
I think you’ll hear them snore)
But please don’t go – now you should know
It’s just three stanzas more.’

‘When while you read beneath a tree –
Brain-dead from Burgess press
A Mutant Butler running by –
In bright red waistcoat dressed –
Will stop his run and say “I’m late”
Then run on quite distressed.’

‘That’s when you’ll know it’s time to go –
Awake or deep in dream –
In either case you could give chase
Or just let seeming seem.
Restore the Diplonomicon –
Or just read Jim-Boob’s szine?’

‘Your journey’s start is near at hand –
And it will take some thought
To not too deep or fast become
In paradoxy caught –
The way to Centerland is down
The North Atlantic Dot.’

(*  It didn’t really disappear.  It was stuck to the underside of the tablet and Monde the Demon found it later.  No, really ...trust us on this one ,eh?  The Author.)

Don ended his lengthy recital and, pleased with himself, looked over to Malice whose eyes – alas – had rolled completely back into his head under the epic onslaught.  The demon slapped Malice’s cheeks a few times, and momentarily, he came around.
	“Merde!  You ever do that again and – demon or not – I’ll kick your horned ass.”
	“Sorry, Malice,” said Don, sheepishly, “but you must understand what’s at stake.  The Maltese Dipcon – the Diplonomicon – is a weapon of immense and catastrophic power.  It was forged deep in the volcanic fire of ancient Malta by Archbale All-Man, a Grand Magus and Master of the Tarot.  The tablet – the board, that is – and blocks are manifestations of the dark forces of the Tarot.  They don’t just augur the fate and doom of humanity but – in the wrongs hands – they create it.  The 22 starting positions of the stones on the tablet represent the 22 cards of the Major Arcana .  They portray by mythic symbol the virtues and defects of Humankind.  The 112 stones, 56 of each in two shapes divided into seven colors, represent the 56 cards of the Minor Arcana.  They play out man’s unfolding doom.”
	“You done yet?” asked Alex, “Because, apart from boring the piss out of me, you’re getting more than a little weird with all this ‘major’ and ‘minor’ Arkansas crap.”
In response, the demon silently removed from his neck the amulet and, dropping it to the ground, began chanting:

“Imido clop non, lipid mono con
Monic idol plo, nomic nil do po
Domino con lip, omni colon dip!”


Alex felt rather than heard the low, slow thrum as the land beneath his feet began to writhe and change as the demon’s chant trailed off.  The tiny stream widened to a brook.  Inexplicably, he found himself nearly asleep under a nearby tree beside the brook, TAP in his lap, fluttering slightly in the cooling breeze.  The landscape had shape-shifted and warped in all directions at once and, suddenly, nothing was the same.
	“The time for the Dipcon to be re-gathered is upon us, Malice,” spoke Don lowly, almost to himself.  “For better or worse, you are the Hero-Fool foretold in legend and this task falls to you, unbidden.  It is your quest, and yours alone.  Sort of a major ‘oopsie’ if you ask me, but there it is.  Good luck, you’re gonna need.  We’re all gonna need it.”  The breeze muffled his words, kept Malice from hearing the last of them.
	“It’s a good thing,” said Don as he slowly vanished, his wings disappearing last.

